# Homework 1 - Market Basket Analysis

You may work individually or in teams of up to three on this homework.
You will provide ONE submission for your team.

## Intro

In this homework, you will get hands on experience in building a system for
market basket analysis.

I have provided a sample [data set](../data/txn_by_dept.csv) that I found on
[data.world](https://data.world/zpencer/transaction-itemset).  But,
if you have your own dataset that you would like to use, go for it!

Feel free to use whatever language or programming environment that you like.
You may use external libraries for data structures and other primitives, but you
must implement an algorithm for finding a frequent itemset, generating
associations, and a ranking that combines at least two assessment metrics.

## Part 1 - Generate a frequent itemset

Given a csv of transactions and a minimum support, you will generate a frequent
itemset.  Specifically, you will implement the apriori algorithm. (If you want
to implement a better technique for generating frequent itemsets, that is fine,
but just check with me on the algorithm that you want to implement or ask for
suggestions.)

## Part 2 - Generate a set of strong rules

Given a frequent itemset and a minimum confidence, you will generate a set of
strong association rules.  Specifically, implement Algorithm 8.6 from the Zaki
and Meira book to generate all strong rules without testing all possible rules.

## Part 3 - Rank rules

Given a set of association rules and a value $k$, produce the $k$ most
interesting rules.  Specifically, implement a scoring algorithm  that utilizes
at least two assessment metrics. Use the score to rank rules so that you can
pick the $k$ most interesting rules.

## Part 4 - Write up

Provide a short (1-2 page) writeup of your project.  Specifically, your writeup
must:

1. describe how one can use your system
2. provide an example input and output
3. give the ssh uri of the git repo (e.g. the one of the form `git@github.com:....git`)
4. explain your score algorithm
5. discuss why you chose your score algorithm

## Submission

The submission will have two deliverables.
Both deliverables should be submitted before the deadline.

**Deliverable 1** On D2L, submit a PDF of your writeup.

**Deliverable 2** In a git repository on Github, create a tag called `hw01`.
Push your code (and tag), and add me to your repository (my username is `dlm`).
