# Homework 3 - Supervised Learning

You may work individually or in teams of up to four on this homework.
You will provide ONE submission for your team.

## Intro

In this homework, you will get hands on experience in building a supervised
learning system.

In this assignment, you will explore the [UC Irvine Machine Learning
Repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php), select a data set from
that repository and implement decision trees and *k*-nearest neighbors (and
optionally random forests),
and assess the quality of the two algorithms on your datasets.  (Note that if
you have your own dataset that you would like to use instead of the UCI repo,
please, speak with me.)

Feel free to use whatever language or programming environment that you like.
You may use external libraries for data structures, linear algebra,
and other primitives, but you must implement an algorithm for
decision trees and *k*-nearest neighbors, and the assessment metrics.

## Part 1 - Get Data


### Find a dataset

Go to the [UC Irvine Machine Learning
Repository](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/index.php) and select a data set.
Feel free to pick which ever you like.  Note that the [Iris
dataset](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/iris) is a classic.  Make sure
that you pick a data set with labels.

## Part 2 - Implement Algos

Implement the decision tree and *k*-nearest neighbors algorithms.

## Part 3 - Implement Assessments

* Implement one of the classification performance measures discussed in class.
  (Recommended F-measure).

* Implement *k*-fold cross validation (note that this *k* is not the same *k* as
  in *k*-nearest neighbors) to assess your algorithm.

## Part 4 - Putting it together

Use your algorithms and datasets to explore your data.  Note that there are may
ways to choose *k* (for *k*-nearest neighbors).  In general, picking a good *k*
is not easy so try a few values.  Also, consider trying out the two
classification algorithms on only a subset of dimensions for the data.  Finally,
determine which algorithms work best on your data set. You can, but do not need
to, do a paired t-test to compare.

## Part 5 - Write up

Provide a medium length (3-5 page) writeup of your project.  Specifically, your
writeup must:

1. describe how one can use your system
2. provide an example input and output
3. give the ssh uri of the git repo (e.g. the one of the form `git@github.com:....git`)
4. discuss your findings in Part 4.

## Submission

The submission will have two deliverables.
Both deliverables should be submitted before the deadline.

**Deliverable 1** On D2L, submit a PDF of your writeup.

**Deliverable 2** In a git repository on Github, create a tag called `hw03`.
Push your code (and tag), and add me to your repository (my username is `dlm`).
If you are using the same repo from a previous assignment, no need to re-add me.
